We managed to prevent ourselves
rerunning our updateDOM
function every single time by
introducing this hook code
in a function that we could hook into,
that allowed us,
when we updated our data,
to mask the fact that we will also rerun
in our updateDOM function,
converting it all to DOM elements.
However, there was another problem.
We had a full representation in JavaScript
based on our data as it had changed, full
updated representation of what was to show
up on the page via the call to createVDOM.
Wonderful visual, updated with our data.
However, we then just proceeded to map
through each element and just recreate
them from scratch every time, replace the
existing elements from scratch every time.
Was that really necessary, or
could we have looked at that
JavaScript intermediate representation?
of what's to show up on the page?
Use the fact we have that, and the fact we
have the previous one based on the last
data, and the fact that the only
thing the user ever sees is,
the data flowed through that
representation description onto the page.
There's no other stuff on the page
that could otherwise have shown up.
It's all through that description in
JavaScript, the visual, the virtual,
the JavaScript DOM use that to compare
how they actually changed between the two
different states between the two different
values of our data in JavaScript.
And then based on that, make the incisive
actual changes to the real C++ DOM.
And that is what we're gonna do.
All the benefit of composition,
that means moving around elements on
a JavaScript representation so that we can
have them all in JavaScript memory and
have them visually represented there
with one single description, one to one.
No conditional on this change,
change this bit of the page,
do conditional on this change,
change this bit.
No, just data, and
here is what will be displayed,
description of it in
full light back in HTML.
Very descriptive, very declarative, very
composable, but dangerously inefficient.
And so we're gonna introduce here,
well, maybe it says on this slide here,
all this benefit, but
it's still dangerously inefficient.
Only some of our elements
need recreating from scratch.
Couldn't we recreate our vDOM from
scratch to give us composition, but
then write an algorithm?
Clever code to check what
elements actually differ, and
only change the DOM elements
that really need updating.
So we're gonna need to figure out
which elements need updating.
We've got here some preliminary code
before we get to our final code in UI hard
parts here, some preliminary code which is
gonna build into that where we have data
in JavaScript.
We have a function createVDOM that is
going to, when run, produce a description
based on that current data or
what should show up on the page.
We have a handle function.
And we have this new function findDiff.
And then in line 23 and 25 or 6,
we have two codes to create VDOM,
which is gonna produce
that instantiated array.
I mean, it's instantiated,
means put the data into it, in this case,
array of subarrays describing the page.
First time with name
being an empty string,
second time with name being will, okay?
And we are then going to run createVDOM
again and get that list of elements
that are hopefully gonna become
actual elements once we convert them.
But these ones are in JavaScript, within
that case, input, and then will, and then
the handle function still, div, and then
hello will, and then div, and great job.
We then are going to run in line 28,
a function we're calling here
findDiff that is gonna compare those
two arrays of lists of elements,
array of sub arrays,
that list of elements.
And how is it gonna do it?
We're gonna loop through one by one.
And then when i is 0,
we're going to look at the zero index or
zeroth element of the created
visual virtual DOM in VDOM1,
which will be input,
empty string, handle, and
compare it to the current,
which will be input, will, and handle.
And if they're not the same, then we're
gonna write some code to change the actual
DOM element that we hopefully created the
first time that we took that created VDOM.
And actually, someone had to create
the elements in the first place and
put them on the actual
C++ DOM in the first case.
But next time we're gonna check,
has the data led
to an actual change in the elements
such that we need to go and
make any significant edit to
the real C++ DOM elements?
Amazing, amazing.
We're gonna have to use
JSON.stringify as our tool for
easily comparing arrays and their content.
So we're gonna pass in input, name,
handle, which will be input, sorry,
that'll be input empty string, handle,
and that'll turn into, [INAUDIBLE]
JSON.stringify, that'll turn into
the string, input, space, function handle.
And then when we do it again,
it'll be, input, Will,
function handle attribute will
be input as you probably, input,
function handle, and the next time
will be input, Will, function handle.
Will they be the same?
No, they will not.
And so we will have to go and
do some real changes.
However, for i equals 0, 1, 2, the ID2,
whatever it's called, index 2,
will div great job and
div great job be the same?
You bet they will, thank you, exactly.
They'll be exactly the same.
So will we go and
change any actual DOM elements?
No, we won't even need to.